# react-nov

## Building React boilerplate with Babel and Webpack 
# Steps

# 1. Initialize a brand new NPM project.
```javascript 
npm init -y  
```
=> create a brand new package.json file

# 2. Downloading or installing packages from the NPM directory.    
```javascript
npm install react react-dom
```
The result of => node_modules includes different libraries which react and react-dom depends on.

# 3. Create a gitignore file
* We want to push our code to GitHub but we don’t want to push our node_modules folder. The reason for that it could be really large. If people want to contribute to our project, they can do npm install  which goes to package.json and looks the dependencies of that project and install them.
	
We will use Webpack to bundle our code together and that’s going to output our code into a folder called "dist". Also, don’t push to GitHub because whenever we want to create, we can create.

# 4. Start to create an app folder. It will not start to work initially because we need to implement WEBPACK and BABEL.

* Babel holds JSX code and convert into createElement invocations. So whenever we create a JSX, under the hood, it creates an ELEMENT.
* ReactDOM has a render method which takes 2 different arguments.
```javascript

ReactDOM.render(	<App />   //It is converted into a React Element, 
	  document.getElementById(‘app’)   // Where to render to the Element to )
```

Why ReactDOM package separate than React package?
1. ReactDOM allows us to render a react element to the DOM.
2. Browser environment could be different. Just because you’re using React doesn’t  necessarily mean, you’re rendering it to a DOM environment or a browser environment. Other people might want to render in other environments like an IOS, android app..

* Module bundler requires because we have many modules. (React,react-dom,index.css) It turns them into ONE. Bundle all of them together and then browser can understand them. "WEBPACK"
* A way to transform our JSX into normal JS is required so browser can also understand that. "BABEL"

 # 5.
 ```javascript
npm install --save-dev @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-react webpack webpack-cli webpack-dev-server babel-loader css-loader style-loader html-webpack-plugin
```
# 6.  webpack.config.js

* Webpack is going to bundle all of our modules together, starting at /app/index.js module. Then, it’s going to create a brand new folder called DIST inside the root.
* App/index.js is main root file of the application.

# 7. Babel turn jsx to normal js. It also takes modern js file in our project and arrange the code depends on the specific browser. So, edit package.json:
```javascript
“babel”:{
	“presets”:[
	“@babel/preset-env”,
	“@babel/preset-react”
]
}
```

# 8.
```javascript

”scripts”:{
	“build”:”webpack”
}
```
# 9. In terminal: npm run build  => creates dist folder
* Dist is automatically generated by webpack.

# 10. Go to webpack.config.js
```javascript

const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require(‘html-webpack-plugin’) 

Then;
 plugins: [
        new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
            template: 'app/index.html'
        })
    ]
Then,
Delete dist folder from your project

Then, go to terminal and “npm run build”
```
# 11. In package.json  
```javascript

”scripts": {
    “start”: "webpack-dev-server"
  },
```
=> Then, Delete dist folder
=> Then, Go to terminal npm run start
* We will use “webpack-dev-server” until we get the point where we are going to push our app to PRODUCTION.
